welcome to targeting text interactively
persuasive texts I'd like to show you
some of the key features of the series
here is the main menu you can see the 10
text type buttons exposition letter to
the editor advertisement interview
review of written texts personal
response protest banner editorial review
of media text discussion and writers
toolkit here i'm using the middle
primary disk today and you will find the
same text types and features on the
upper and lower primary disks let's
start by taking a look at exposition
click on the x position button to open
the submenu each text type submenu is
broken down into what is it structure
example text graphic organizer scaffold
revision checklist and activity let's
begin with what is it and find out the
purpose and uses of an exposition the
first page begins with a short statement
about the text type this allows teachers
to discuss and assess the students prior
knowledge about the text time before
they click on the purpose button by
clicking on the purpose button more
information pops up along with written
and visual examples if a text type has
more than one purpose or type then there
are extra pages that allow teachers to
investigate each area separately you can
navigate the information in each text
type by clicking on this character when
you reach the last page in the section
it will direct you to the next one for
the next section I'll return to the main
menu and click on the discussion text
type and we can investigate further
the structure section provides a general
overview of the typical layout and
headings each text type has its own
specific language usage grammatical
features and organizational features the
section on structure takes students
through these stages in an explicit
sequential manner it allows teachers to
discuss with the students each stage of
the writing process before they complete
the activities at each stage of the
lesson sequence there are interactive
activities for students to complete on
the screen some activities require
selecting a correct choice others
require organizing or categorizing
information while others require a short
written response
I'll navigate back to the main menu and
click on the review of media text text
type to show you the example
question what do you think all these
things have in common shoes sunscreen
bottles and pens answer they're all made
from oil this is the graphic organizer
for the editorial text type graphic
organizers are excellent tools for
assisting students in gathering the
information required in the prewriting
stage and in organizing it appropriately
for the needs of their audience and the
text types purpose they allow students
to share with their peers their own
experiences and background knowledge on
topic the template example can be
written into on the screen of the
interactive whiteboard to serve as a
reference point for joint construction
or it can be printed out and distributed
for students to complete individually
I've clicked on the personal response
button in the main menu to show you an
example of a scaffold the scaffold acts
as a summary of the structure sections
of the text type it brings in the main
organizational features of the text type
as well as some of the key language
features it's a very effective tool for
revising the writing steps with students
as a whole class or with a particular
group it helps to keep young writers on
track so that they maintain meaning and
cohesiveness throughout their draft text
the revision checklist can be written
into on-screen or distributed to
students it covers all aspects of each
specific text type from structure
language purpose as well as editing for
spelling and punctuation using this
checklist in class allows for students
to critically examine their own or
others writing and is a significant tool
in encouraging student self-reflection
I've clicked on the interview text type
button to show you a fun way to
reinforce elements of the lesson and
interact with the whole class each text
types interactive activity is different
and features a number of pages where the
trait of the text is examined in detail
and structured examples are provided the
activities can be completed as a whole
class small group or individually
student result pages noting the correct
answers how many attempts and how many
times they used the hint tool can be
printed out for each activity some
activities are open-ended and encourage
creative thinking while others involve
identifying formal and informal language
matching rhyming words putting in
missing words and punctuation or joining
sentence fragments
the last thing I'd like to show you is
the button in the middle of the screen
entitled writers toolkit the writers
tool kit is designed to cover all
aspects of writing which are central to
all forms of written expression this
essential information is categorized
based on the five stages of writing
prewriting drafting revising
proofreading and editing and publishing
there is also a separate section to
examine the traits of good writing
thank you for taking the time to let me
tell you about Blake's targeting text
interactively persuasive text